Contaminating Log Files
One way we can try to
inject code onto the server
is through log file poisoning.
Most application servers will log
all URLs that are requested.
We can use this to our advantage
by submitting a request
that includes PHP code.
Once the request is logged,
we can use the log
file in our LFI payload.
The tools used in this module,
especially DIRB,
can fill the Apache log
files with lots of noise.
The next steps of this
section are easier to see
and understand if the log
files are relatively clean.
We’ll use the clear_logs script
on the Windows 10
client to clean up the contents
of the Apache log files.
Next, let’s use Netcat to connect to
our Windows 10 lab machine
on port 80 with an interesting payload.
Let’s walk through the
components of the payload.
First, notice that the entire
payload is written in PHP.
The bulk of the PHP payload
is a simple echo command
that will print output to the page.
This output is first wrapped
in pre HTML tags,
which preserve any line breaks
or formatting in the results
of the function call.
Next is the function call itself,
shell_exec, which will
execute an OS command.
Finally, the OS command is retrieved
from the “cmd” parameter
of the GET request.
This one line of PHP will let
us specify an OS command
via the query string and output
the results in the browser.
Let’s send that payload now.
Despite the “Bad Request”
error that was generated
because we didn’t make
a valid HTTP request,
we can verify the request was submitted
by checking the Apache log files
on our Windows 10 lab machine.
We can view these logs by using
the XAMPP Control Panel.
Our payload was inserted
into the log file successfully.
Since our payload has been logged,
we can attempt LFI execution.